Q1 
Scheduler : Exponential distribution Scheduler 

Advantages - The exponential scheduler reduces starvation by giving lower priority processes a chance by running a completely random exponential probability
Even though it is probablistic, it still gives lower priority jobs less cpu time compared to higher priority jobs.
It is also simpler to execute since there are less complexities compared to other schedulers. Here just the lambda needs to be tuned properly to get the desired values. 

Disadvantages - The exponential scheduler may cause inconsistent performance for critical tasks since its selection is randomized. 
If there is a higher priority job waitiing, lower priority job still might be given a chance since the order to pick up is based on probability. 
It is not suitable for systems that require guranteed scheduling patterns.

Scheduler : Linux like scheduler 

Advantages - The Linux like scheduler adjusts based on the process behaviour which leads to a more fair pick. 
It uses goodness(priority + remaining time) but still giving more weight to priority.
The Epoch based system allows periodic rebalancing of the CPU time. It is more scalable and adaptable since it is a working replica of the linux based scheduler.

Disadvantages - It is much more complex to implement since there are fine calculations which may disrupt the flow.
It also has a higher overhead because whenever the epoch resets we have to recalculate the quantum. 
It requires more memory to save the values such as the goodness score, counter, quantum. 

Scheduler : Xinu(Round Robin) 

Advantages - It is simpler and easy to implement since we do not need to recalculate the quantum as fixed quantum is used. 
It also has a lower overhead since it requires minimal calculations. It works well when processes are of equal weightage. 
Its behaviour is easy to track and verify. 

Disadvantages - Stravation is very much possible for lower priority processes if higher priority keep entering ready queue.
Fixed Quantum can be inefficient since some processes may require more time vs some shorter processes require less. 
It has a poor performance for real time tasks since it does not consider process history and trends. 

Q2
Scheduler : Exponential distribution Scheduler 

The scheduler first checks if the ready queue is empty or not by q[rdyhead].qnext == rdytail. Which proves that right after the head, tail is present.
Only in this case the scheduler set the currpid to NULLPROC and assign the null process to run. If there are processes in the ready queue then it selects one
on the basis of the exponential random number generated and never runs null when processes are present in the queue.

Scheduler : Linux like scheduler 

This scheduler maintains and updates processes on the basis of different metrics such as the quantum, goodness, counter. The scheduler goes over all the 
processes to find out the process with the highest goodness score in the ready queue. If no process has a positive goodness score
(goodness_maximum = 0 or goodness_pb == NULLPROC) which means all the processes either have 0 quantum or are not in the ready queue. This ensures that
Null process only runs when no runnable process has any quantum remaining or none ready. When a epoch restarts quantum and goodness are recalculated,
at that point any of the processes replace the null process and the cycle keeps going on. 

Scheduler : Xinu(Round Robin) 

The ready queue in Xinu is decided on the basis of the priority. The scheduler removes the highest priority in the ready queue using 
currpid = getlast(rdytail). If and only if the ready queue is empty(q[rdyhead].qnext == rdytail) then the scheduler sets the currpid = NULLPROC.
The null process thus only run when there are no user processes in the ready queue and as soon as an process becomes ready again the process is pushed
to the ready queue and the null process is replaced. 